# GIS Data
GIS data was assembled based on data in the CSV files, "FOCB Monitoring Sites
SHORT NAMES.xlsx" and "din_2019.csv" and "tn_18_19.csv".

## GIS Data
Data from "FOCB Monitoring Sites SHORT NAMES.xlsx" was loaded into GIS as a
table.  A feature layer was created by displaying the XY data (longitudes and
latitudes) from that file, and exporting as a feature layer.  The data layer was
saved in a Personal Geodatabase , "focb_nutrietns.mdb", in the feature
"focb_locations".  We used the geodatabase because  shapefiles do not accept
NULL values in their attributes.

### Attributes
Specific data on DIN and TN were loaded from "din_2019.csv" and "tn_18_19.csv".
These files contains descriptive statistics by site derived from specific
subsets of recent FOCB data. Analysis shows that year to year and seasonal
variation is substantial, so we focused on recent periods (2019 for DIN and 2018
and 2019 for TN) when FOCB sampling was reasonably consistent across sites.
These data files were produced in the R Notebook, "FOCB_Nutrients_Graphics.Rmd".

### Combining the Data
Data from the attribute tables was added to the features by importing the 
attribute data as separate table, joining the tables by Site ID, copying 
data from the joined tables into the feature data, and finally removing the
joins.  Data imported to the feature layer represent median values.

Attribute Name | Contents                        | Units
---------------|---------------------------------|--------------
OBJECTID       | Arbitrary sequence number generated by ArcGIS |  
Station_ID     | FOCB sampling station ID code   |  
Station_Name   | FOCB preferred name of sampling location |  
Alt_Name       | Simplified name, principally for us on maps and plots   |  
TOWN           | Town where the sampling location is found |  
Y              | Latitude                        |  WGS 1984
X              | Longitude                       |  WGS 1984
category       | Surface, Profile or Continuous  |  
DIN            | Median 2019 Dissolved inorganic nitrogen | mg/l  
TN             | Median 2018-2019 total nitrogen | mg/l  

## Intermediate Data files
Two files contain summary statistics for DIN and TN by sampling locations.
These summaries were intended principally for mapping relative nutrient levels.
We include those summaries here

### `tn_18_19.csv`
This file contains summary statistics on total nitrogen levels from FOCB data 
from the years 2018 and 2019.  Because of inconsistent seasonal sampling at some 
stations, we restricted the analysis to the "summer" months:  May through 
September.

Attribute Name | Contents                        | Units
---------------|---------------------------------|--------------
station        | FOCB sampling station ID code   |  
station_name   | FOCB preferred name of sampling location |  
tn_mn          | Mean total nitrogen             | mg/l
tn_sd
tn_n
tn_md
tn_iqr
tn_p90
tn_gm
